---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/a3.jpg
navigation: True
title: What is AI?
date: 2022-02-18 08:00:00
tags: [ai theory]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: tony
---

The following is an excerpt from "Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach" by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig (temporary filler content):

We have claimed that AI is exciting, but we have not said what it is. In Figure 1.1 we see
eight definitions of AI, laid out along two dimensions. The definitions on top are concerned
with thought processes and reasoning, whereas the ones on the bottom address behavior. The
definitions on the left measure success in terms of fidelity to human performance, whereas
RATIONALITY the ones on the right measure against an ideal performance measure, called rationality. A
system is rational if it does the “right thing,” given what it knows.
Historically, all four approaches to AI have been followed, each by different people
with different methods. A human-centered approach must be in part an empirical science, involving observations and hypotheses about human behavior. A rationalist1 approach involves
a combination of mathematics and engineering. The various group have both disparaged and
helped each other. Let us look at the four approaches in more detail.

### 1.1.1 Acting humanly: The Turing Test approach

The Turing Test, proposed by Alan Turing (1950), was designed to provide a satisfactory
operational definition of intelligence. A computer passes the test if a human interrogator, after
posing some written questions, cannot tell whether the written responses come from a person
or from a computer. Chapter 26 discusses the details of the test and whether a computer would
really be intelligent if it passed. For now, we note that programming a computer to pass a
rigorously applied test provides plenty to work on. The computer would need to possess the
following capabilities:
* natural language processing to enable it to communicate successfully in English; 
* knowledge representation to store what it knows or hears; 
* automated reasoning to use the stored information to answer questions and to draw
new conclusions;
* machine learning to adapt to new circumstances and to detect and extrapolate patterns.


Turing’s test deliberately avoided direct physical interaction between the interrogator and the
computer, because physical simulation of a person is unnecessary for intelligence. However, the so-called total Turing Test includes a video signal so that the interrogator can test the
subject’s perceptual abilities, as well as the opportunity for the interrogator to pass physical
objects “through the hatch.” To pass the total Turing Test, the computer will need

* computer vision to perceive objects, and
* robotics to manipulate objects and move about.

These six disciplines compose most of AI, and Turing deserves credit for designing a test
that remains relevant 60 years later. Yet AI researchers have devoted little effort to passing
the Turing Test, believing that it is more important to study the underlying principles of intelligence than to duplicate an exemplar. The quest for “artificial flight” succeeded when the
Wright brothers and others stopped imitating birds and started using wind tunnels and learning about aerodynamics. Aeronautical engineering texts do not define the goal of their field
as making “machines that fly so exactly like pigeons that they can fool even other pigeons.”

### 1.1.2 Thinking humanly: The cognitive modeling approach

If we are going to say that a given program thinks like a human, we must have some way of
determining how humans think. We need to get inside the actual workings of human minds.
There are three ways to do this: through introspection—trying to catch our own thoughts as
they go by; through psychological experiments—observing a person in action; and through
brain imaging—observing the brain in action. Once we have a sufficiently precise theory of
the mind, it becomes possible to express the theory as a computer program. If the program’s
input–output behavior matches corresponding human behavior, that is evidence that some of
the program’s mechanisms could also be operating in humans. For example, Allen Newell
and Herbert Simon, who developed GPS, the “General Problem Solver” (Newell and Simon,
1961), were not content merely to have their program solve problems correctly. They were
more concerned with comparing the trace of its reasoning steps to traces of human subjects
solving the same problems. The interdisciplinary field of cognitive science brings together
computer models from AI and experimental techniques from psychology to construct precise
and testable theories of the human mind.

Cognitive science is a fascinating field in itself, worthy of several textbooks and at least
one encyclopedia (Wilson and Keil, 1999). We will occasionally comment on similarities or
differences between AI techniques and human cognition. Real cognitive science, however, is
necessarily based on experimental investigation of actual humans or animals. We will leave
that for other books, as we assume the reader has only a computer for experimentation.
In the early days of AI there was often confusion between the approaches: an author
would argue that an algorithm performs well on a task and that it is therefore a good model
of human performance, or vice versa. Modern authors separate the two kinds of claims;
this distinction has allowed both AI and cognitive science to develop more rapidly. The two
fields continue to fertilize each other, most notably in computer vision, which incorporates
neurophysiological evidence into computational models.

### 1.1.3 Thinking rationally: The “laws of thought” approach

The Greek philosopher Aristotle was one of the first to attempt to codify “right thinking,” that
 is, irrefutable reasoning processes. His syllogisms provided patterns for argument structures
that always yielded correct conclusions when given correct premises—for example, “Socrates
is a man; all men are mortal; therefore, Socrates is mortal.” These laws of thought were
 supposed to govern the operation of the mind; their study initiated the field called logic.
Logicians in the 19th century developed a precise notation for statements about all kinds
of objects in the world and the relations among them. (Contrast this with ordinary arithmetic
notation, which provides only for statements about numbers.) By 1965, programs existed
that could, in principle, solve any solvable problem described in logical notation. (Although
 if no solution exists, the program might loop forever.) The so-called logicist tradition within
artificial intelligence hopes to build on such programs to create intelligent systems.
There are two main obstacles to this approach. First, it is not easy to take informal
knowledge and state it in the formal terms required by logical notation, particularly when
the knowledge is less than 100% certain. Second, there is a big difference between solving
a problem “in principle” and solving it in practice. Even problems with just a few hundred
facts can exhaust the computational resources of any computer unless it has some guidance
as to which reasoning steps to try first. Although both of these obstacles apply to any attempt
to build computational reasoning systems, they appeared first in the logicist tradition.

### 1.1.4 Acting rationally: The rational agent approach

 An agent is just something that acts (agent comes from the Latin agere, to do). Of course,
all computer programs do something, but computer agents are expected to do more: operate
autonomously, perceive their environment, persist over a prolonged time period, adapt to
 change, and create and pursue goals. A rational agent is one that acts so as to achieve the
best outcome or, when there is uncertainty, the best expected outcome.
In the “laws of thought” approach to AI, the emphasis was on correct inferences. Making correct inferences is sometimes part of being a rational agent, because one way to act
rationally is to reason logically to the conclusion that a given action will achieve one’s goals
and then to act on that conclusion. On the other hand, correct inference is not all of rationality; in some situations, there is no provably correct thing to do, but something must still be
done. There are also ways of acting rationally that cannot be said to involve inference. For
example, recoiling from a hot stove is a reflex action that is usually more successful than a
slower action taken after careful deliberation.
All the skills needed for the Turing Test also allow an agent to act rationally. Knowledge
representation and reasoning enable agents to reach good decisions. We need to be able to
generate comprehensible sentences in natural language to get by in a complex society. We
need learning not only for erudition, but also because it improves our ability to generate
effective behavior.
The rational-agent approach has two advantages over the other approaches. First, it
is more general than the “laws of thought” approach because correct inference is just one
of several possible mechanisms for achieving rationality. Second, it is more amenable to
scientific development than are approaches based on human behavior or human thought. The
standard of rationality is mathematically well defined and completely general, and can be
“unpacked” to generate agent designs that provably achieve it. Human behavior, on the other
hand, is well adapted for one specific environment and is defined by, well, the sum total
of all the things that humans do. This book therefore concentrates on general principles
of rational agents and on components for constructing them. We will see that despite the
apparent simplicity with which the problem can be stated, an enormous variety of issues
come up when we try to solve it. Chapter 2 outlines some of these issues in more detail.
One important point to keep in mind: We will see before too long that achieving perfect
rationality—always doing the right thing—is not feasible in complicated environments. The
computational demands are just too high. For most of the book, however, we will adopt the
working hypothesis that perfect rationality is a good starting point for analysis. It simplifies
the problem and provides the appropriate setting for most of the foundational material in
the field. Chapters 5 and 17 deal explicitly with the issue of limited rationality—acting 
appropriately when there is not enough time to do all the computations one might like.